Tableau Homework Summary

Summary:  For the analysis, I looked at data for 2014.  I first looked at just some general info, such as the top 
and bottom station, the trips per month and the trips per hour of the day.  I then looked at usage patterns by
whether the rider was short term customer or an annual subscriber.  I discovered some interesting differences which
I describe below.  

Data:  For the analysis, I had planned to use data for the full year 2014.  However, file size was causing 
performance issues in Tableau.  As I still wanted to look at differences over a year, I decided to use
random sampling and based my analysis on a sample.  To do this, I brought the full months of data into 
Python and used the Pandas sample function to take a random sample of 5% of the trips each month.  I then 
combined the sample month into a single file and output in a csv format.  So, I was able to reduce the size
of the data from around 8 million rows to about 400 thousand.  

Analysis:  As I still wanted to get estimates for a full year, I create a variable in Tableau called Scaler.  This is
a constant 20, which means each sample row represents 20 records(ie. I sampled 5%).  I was then able to use this to scale up to
a full year when I did counts of the number of trips. So the results I show are estimates, but should be reasonable.

Results:  I found that some station are widely used, while others are rarely used.  This data was from 2014, which
was the first full year of the program. In 2014, only Brooklyn and Lower Manhattan had stations, which you will see
on the map.  The program was expanded in later years to other ares.  The lower used stations are primarily in Brooklyn.

I also found that the program is more widely used in warmer months, which wasn't surprising and I also found
that it does look like a lot of people utilize the bikes for commuting to and from work, with peaks during
rush hour.

I then wanted to explore the pass type.  There are short term passes and annual subscripitions.  A vast majority
of riders have annual subscription.  In looking at usage patterns, I began to suspect that many of the short
term customers are tourists. They tend to do trips in the later morning and early afternoon and don't appear
to use the bikes for commuting. The percentage of trips taken by short terms customers also increases
during the traditional tourist season, further leading me to believe a lot of them are tourist.  This
might be helpful in deciding how to allocate bikes to the different stations at different times of the year.        